This file describe in brief how to compile and use the interface element
inserting program which is described in detail in the paper 

VP Nguyen, "An open source program to generate zero-thickness cohesive interface elements", Advances in Engineering 
Software, 2014.

If you have used this code successfully please cite the above article.

1. Used libraries:

The program uses firstly the Standard Template Library (STL) which is 
available in most of operating systems. It also uses the Boost library
which can be downloaded at www.boost.org.

2. Compilation

The program can be easily compiled using the scons program, 
www.scons.org. In the terminal, just type scons. That's it :-)
It can be also compiled using Gnu Make, by simply typing make in a terminal. For Linux 
and Mac OS machines, a makefile is provided. For Windows, the code can be compiled using
Microsoft Visual Studio (after Boost was installed).

3. Usage:

In the terminal, type: ./mesh-generator --help for a simple manual. 

An example to generate a mesh for a double cantiler beam with a pre-existing notch is:

./mesh-generator --mesh-file dcb.msh --out-file dcb-solid.mesh --interface-file dcb-interface.mesh --interface
--notch 0 0 55 0 

4. Capabilities:

In short the code reads a Gmsh mesh file and generate cohesive interface elements for (1) jem-jive FEM code
and (2) Abaqus FE package. 

5. Test

In the test folder, you will find some examples: dcb.msh (Double Cantilever Beam) and one-fiber.msh (square with
a centerer inclusion). Also provided are the corresponding *.geo files. 

In the terminal, in the test folder, type the following

src/interface-elem --mesh-file one-fiber.msh --out-file one-fiber-bulk.mesh --interface-file one-fiber-interface.mesh --interface

to build interface elements along the matrix/inclusion interface.

src/interface-elem --mesh-file one-fiber.msh --out-file one-fiber-bulk.mesh --interface-file one-fiber-interface.mesh --domain 200

to build interface elements everywhere except in the inclusion (strong inclusion). The number 200 was specified in one-fiber.geo file.


src/interface-elem --mesh-file one-fiber.msh --out-file one-fiber.inp  --interface

to build interface elements at matrix/inclusion boundary for Abaqus analysis.


Vinh Phu Nguyen, nvinhphu@gmail.com
Cardiff University,
May 2014.
